In this section will learn how to create and work with a Many to Many relationship in eloquent which
is polymorphic in our application and throughout this course.
We already have created a Many to Many relationship and this was a relationship between blog post and
tag.
So let's quickly remind ourselves what is a Many to Many relationship so you can see that one blog post
can have a list of many tasks associated with it.
But the difference between one too many.
Let's take a look at the diagram we created one too many polymorphic relationships for comments and
the difference is that all the comments associated with a blog post are unique to this specific blog
post.
That's not the case with many to many relationship.
In this case blog posts can have many tags but those same tags can be also associated to different blog
posts.
So what we would like to achieve is we would like to make tags a sign of all not only to blog posts
but also to other models.
And in this example we'll work with comments so comments can have tags and blog posts can have tags
and as it is with many to many relationship the same tag can be associated with different models.
Whether that our different blog posts or different comments traditionally let's first take a look at
the current situation so there is a blog post model.
There is the tag model and between them seats the pivot or intermediate table.
This table is used to create a relationship between blog posts and the tide.
So for each relationship that has to be created between blog post and tag there will be another row
inside that pivot table.
So let's ignore for a second how this pivot table is actually called.
We will just use this example of pivot intermediate table.
Now inside each of those people tables there is a blog post ideas related to blog post and tag I.D.
related to the tag.
So to remove an association between blog posts and a tag we just remove a record from that pivot table
or other records to the pivot table to create this relationship.
So what would be different.
So we would like both the blog post and comment models to be possible to associate tax to them.
So what will change is actually the pivot table
so instead of just having a blog post I.D. will now have those morph columns as you see here.
We have come up with a taxable name so there will be targetable Ida and tugboat type which will specify
what is the actual model name so tangible I.D. can be either blog post I.D. or the comment I.D. and
the targetable type would be the model name either up comment or app and blog post and finally there
is the tag idea column.
And this actually doesn't change there will still be a relation from tag I.D. to that tag I.D. inside
that tax table.
So what we will achieve throughout this section is we will not only learn how to create a Many to Many
polymorphic relationship.
We will also learn how to move all the code and functionality related to assigning tags to both blog
posts comments or any other model to a specific chunk of code which would actually be our trade.
And we have used trade before but they all came from the Lavell.
So if you remember we've added soft delete functionality to blog posts and comments and all we had to
do is just ah the trade to our specific model and magically it had this solved deal its functionality.
And this time we'll do that ourselves.
So instead of defining all the relationships on specific model and caring about all of that that has
to be set up.
What you will have to do is you will only use a specific trade on a model and this model will immediately
be able to add tags and you won't even have to specify the tags yourself because we were created so
that the tags will be associated out magically based on the content field of a model.
So you can see that both blog post and comment have the content model.
So we will add specific syntax for the users so they will be able to specify what tasks have to be associated
with this blog post or a comment.
And this will all happen in the background.
So you will see how great that is and what possibilities Lavell has.
So stay tuned we'll all learn that in this section.